---
layout:            post
title:             "Hashing"
date:              2020-08-18
tag:               CS Basic
category:          CS Basic
author:            tianliang
math:              true
---

- TOC
{:toc}

## Hashing

### 1.Hash introduction
#### 1) Hash introduction
The basic principle is to change the input of any length into the output of fixed length through hash algorithm. The mapping rule is the corresponding hash algorithm, and the binary string after the original data mapping is the hash value. MD5 and SHA, which are often used in development, are hash algorithms with a long history.
#### 2) Features of hash
What are the requirements of an excellent hash algorithm? 
* The original data cannot be deduced from the hash value. 
There is no corresponding relationship between the mapped data and the original data. 
* small changes in the input data will result in completely different hash values, and the same data will get the same value.
* Hash algorithm should be efficient, long text can also quickly calculate the hash value.
* hash algorithm conflict probability is smaller.
because the principle of hash is to map the value of input space into hash space, and the space of hash value is far less than the input space. According to the drawer principle, there must be different inputs mapped to the same output. As a good hash algorithm, the probability of this kind of conflict should be as small as possible.

### 1.Hash table
The hash table is a data structure that is directly accessed based on the key value. In other words, it accesses the record by mapping the key code value to a location in the table to speed up the search. This mapping function is called a hash function, and the array storing records is called a hash table.

From the definition, we can know that the hash table uses the feature of the array to support subscript access to the data, so the hash table is an extension of the array, which has evolved from the array.

### 2.Hash function
The hash function is essentially a function, we define it as hash(key), the key is the key value of the element, and the value obtained through the hash function is the hash value.

So what rules should we follow when designing the function of the hash function?
* The obtained hash value is a non-negative integer.
* Two same keys, the hash value calculated by the hash function is also the same.
* Two different keys, the calculated hash value is different.

Although we are required to meet the above three requirements.But for the third one, it is impossible to find a hash function with different hash values ​​corresponding to different keys. Even with the well-known MD5, SHA, and CRC hash algorithms, there is no way to avoid this hash collision. And because the storage space of the array is limited, this hash collision will increase.

### 3.Hash Collision
As mentioned above, there must be conflicts in hash algorithms. How should we resolve it? The common algorithms are Chaining and Open Addressing.

#### 1) Chaining
The Chaining method is a more commonly used method to resolve hash collision.
Each subscript position in the hash table corresponds to a linked list, and all elements with the same hash value obtained through the hash function are placed in the linked list corresponding to the subscript position.

When inserting an element, the hash value is obtained through the hash function, and then inserted into the linked list corresponding to the subscript position. The time complexity is O(1). Find and delete the same operation on the linked list at the corresponding position, and the corresponding time complexity is related to the length of the linked list, which is O(n).
#### 2) Open Addressing
The development of addressing method is that when we encounter a hash collision, we re-explore a free position and then insert it.

There are several ways to explore free locations:
* Linear detection  
When we insert data into the hash table, after the hash function finds that the position is already occupied, we start from the current position and look up in turn until we find a free position.  
For example, the size of a hash table is 10. After a data passes through the hash function, it reaches the position of subscript 8, but it is found that there is data in this position, then it is traversed in sequence. If it reaches the end, no free position is found, Then search from the beginning until you find a free position.
Finding an element is similar to inserting. The hash value is calculated through a hash function, and then the corresponding position data is found, and then compared with the searched element. If it is equal, then it is the data we are looking for. If it is not equal, we traverse backwards in turn. If we traverse to the free position and haven't found it, it means that the element is not in the hash table.  
But deleting is a little bit special, we cannot delete the data directly, because when we are searching, if we find a free position, we say that the element is not in the hash table. If we delete it directly, some elements may not be found. So the element we delete is marked as deleted. When we look up, we encounter the element marked as deleted and continue to traverse down.  
Disadvantage: When more and more elements are inserted in the hash table, the probability of hash collisions will increase, the free positions will decrease, and the time for first exploration will increase. The longer, even in extreme cases, we need to traverse the entire hash table.  

* Second exploration
The second exploration is the same as the linear exploration principle. The step length of the first exploration is 1, and the subscripts of the exploration are hash(key)+0, hash(key)+1, hash(key)+2..., The step length of each second exploration becomes the original quadratic, so the bottom of each exploration is hash(key)+0, hash(key)+1^2, hash(key)+2^2.

* Double hash
It turns out that we use multiple hash functions, we first use the first hash function, if the calculated position is already occupied, then use the second hash function, until you find your free position.

No matter which exploration method is used, the probability of hash collision becomes very high when the free space becomes less. In order to ensure the operating efficiency of the hash table as much as possible, under normal circumstances, we will try to ensure that there are a certain percentage of free slots in the hash table.

### 4.hash_map and map in C++
The usage of hash_map and map in c++ is very similar, but they are different. Although map and hash_map are both in key-value mapping, the underlying code of map is a red-black tree, and the inderlying code of hash_map is a hash table.

### 5.Hash application
1. Hash is mainly used in encryption algorithms in the field of information security. It converts information of different lengths into messy 128-bit codes. These code values are called hash values. It can also be said that Hash is to find a kind of data content and data storage 
The mapping relationship between addresses.

2. Search: Hash table is a faster search technique. 
Our previous search was based on this kind of thinking: take out an element from the set to see if it is equal to what we are looking for, if not, narrow the scope and continue searching.   
The hash table is a completely different way of thinking: when I know the key value, I can directly calculate the position of the element in the set, without having to look up again and again.

3. Hash table is widely used in massive data processing.


## Reference
[1] Introduction to Algorithms 3rd Edition.  
[2] The Algorithm Design Manual 2nd Edition.  
[3] [Hashing \| Set 1 (Introduction)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/hashing-set-1-introduction/).  [(geeksforgeeks.org)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/)  
[4] [Hashing \| Set 2 (Separate Chaining)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/hashing-set-2-separate-chaining/).  [geeksforgeeks.org](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/)  
[3] [Hashing | Set 3 (Open Addressing)](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/hashing-set-3-open-addressing/).  [geeksforgeeks.org](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/)   
